see I think Putin will settle for the
devastation of Ukraine I think he could
claim that as a victory the utter
Devastation of the Ukraine because it
stays out of Western hands but if Putin
ever believed that his people even
believed that they were now under attack
let's say by German tanks let's say the
probability that he's used a tactile
Tactical
Battlefield nuclear weapon seems to me
to be extraordinarily high but for me
it's like well why wouldn't he and the
issue is well you don't want to
escalates like yeah that's already
factored into the decision the fact that
they're even theorizing about any of
this without recognizing the the very
direct and real cost to human
civilization on this planet we can look
throughout history to see how U.S
foreign policy especially in regime
change Wars have failed so spectacularly
in different regions around the world
because they go and pick which dictator
they like or don't like well we'll take
this guy out replace him with this guy
and then all of these disastrous
unintended negative consequences come
both for the United States and the
people in these countries yet here we
are now where we are facing that exact
same Prospect with the country that has
the most nuclear weapons in the entire
world
[Music]
thank you
hello everyone I'm here today with Tulsi
gabbard an American politician
commentator and a lieutenant colonel in
the U.S Army Reserves she served as the
U.S representative for Hawaii's second
congressional district across four terms
from 2013 until 2021 she was the first
female combat veteran to run for
president as well as the first Hindu
member of Congress and the first Samoan
American voting member
both during and after her terms in
office gabbard has been a formidable
voice in the political space leaning
right of Center despite her Democrat
Origins with continued appearances on
Fox News while retaining more
Progressive views on topics such as drug
legalization she is the host of her own
program the Tulsi gabbard show where she
continues to speak on relevant issues
with the following Axiom firmly in mind
country before party
thank you very much for agreeing to talk
to me today I'm looking forward to this
conversation uh I thought maybe we'd
start by talking about your
experience your history with the
Democrats if you could just walk us
through that I mean you've had a well
you had a stellar rise within the
confines of the dev of the of the party
and then a certain amount of friction
and maybe you could just walk us through
that you were elected very very young
yes and so maybe we could start with
that and and could you just tell the
story of being involved with the
Democrats
well I so so I growing up here in Hawaii
um it's a it's a beautiful place and and
from a young age
um had a pretty deep appreciation for
the importance of
um protecting this place you know
protecting our oceans and the
preservation of Clean Water we we get
our water here from water aquifers and
as the most remote island chain in the
world
protecting those resources are are
essential for life and so my my
um motivation and drive to run for the
State House of Representatives here in
Hawaii when I was 21 years old in 2002
really came from from that motivation to
want to be in a position where I could
actually do that you know I previously I
had uh they wanted to build a big
landfill over one of our big water
aquifers here which you know even for me
as a teenager seemed like such an absurd
idea and risk because once that water is
contaminated then it's it's done uh and
so I was part of you know I went out and
got petitions and signatures and joined
others to be able to try to stop that
because it was being
um uh the wheels were being greased by a
corrupt politician essentially he was
trying to help his buddy who ran the
landfill business and it was a great
experience for me as a young person to
be a part of stopping that from
happening and that's what drove me to
um to run for office when I was 21 years
old it was not out of uh any kind of
design like oh I'm gonna have this big
political career and this will be the
first stepping stone to get to somewhere
else it was really driven by a desire to
be of service and make that positive
impact
um
I chose to be a Democrat uh you know my
family was it wasn't one of those like
Legacy party affiliation things that you
just did I really was thoughtful at that
time about uh which box I wanted to
check in filing those papers to to run
for office and you know for us here in
Hawaii the origins of the democratic
party really came from
um a party that fought for people a kind
of a more populist perspective we had
Plantation workers who were being
absolutely abused and take advantage of
by the huge landowners here and in the
state that was essentially being run by
Elite wealthy Republicans at the time
and uh it was a Democratic party that
fought for those who didn't have a voice
it was a Democratic party that
celebrated civil liberties that
celebrated freedom and individual
thought this big tent party that really
was rooted in kind of those those
traditional liberal JFK esque ideals and
it was a party that had many voices that
spoke out for peace and so all of these
different things really drew me to the
Democratic party as a party that would
fight for the voices of the people
you know in Canada we have
a socialist tradition the new Democratic
party and I worked for them when I was a
kid
uh the man I worked for was the father
of Alberta's last Premier uh second last
Premier and a lot of the people that
were involved in the NDP were labor
leaders you know it was well known in
Canada that the conservatives were the
party of the establishment and the
Liberals were well they played both
sides against the middle very
effectively and the Socialists the NDP
British socialists rather than the
Communist type we're really they're
really the voice of the working class
they're the voice of the unions and the
working class needs a voice obviously
and I think well the NDP did provide
that to some degree in Canada and the
Democrats historically did provide that
that seemed to go pretty damn sideways
with Clinton and I think it looked to me
from from an outsider's point of view
and I was rather appalled by this that
the Democrats had decided to sacrifice
their traditional base the working class
um
you know the the committed working class
for something approximating the Pollux
politics of division and this whatever
this new narrative is of of Oppression
and victimization and I don't think that
worked out very well either as far as I
could tell because my sense of the
Clinton Trump debacle was that it wasn't
so much that Trump won although he
certainly did it was definitely the case
that Clinton lost and I think she did
that by sacrificing the interests of the
working class Trump just vacuumed that
up in no time flat masterfully I thought
he seemed to have that ability to
communicate with Working Class People
interestingly enough and they trusted
him at least they trusted him in
comparison to Clinton yeah so okay so
you were you were interested in the
Democrats because of that working class
voice tradition and you worked with the
Democrats for a long time how long was
your how long you you you ran when you
were 21 that was in when 2000 that was
in 2002. 2002 right so and when did you
formally sever ties with the Democrats
in October of last year 2022. right so
it was basically 20 years yeah yeah
um I did not spend all of that time in
politics I left the state house when I
uh volunteered to deploy with our Hawaii
Army National Guard unit because
the events of 9 11 like so many
Americans
um you know changed changed my life
changed my perspective and and I had
enlisted in the military motivated by
what happened there to go after the
the islamist terrorists who attacked us
on that day and so I was I was
campaigning for re-election here in
Hawaii in 2004
um which looked to be a pretty easy
re-election here and to continue the
work I was doing our unit or the the
National Guard unit was activated for a
deployment to Iraq I was told by my
commander you know congratulations you
don't have to go your name is you know
we've already got someone filling this
job in the medical unit where I was
serving so you can stay home and and you
can continue doing what you're doing but
I knew that there was no way there was
just no way that I could stay back and
work in some plush office in the state
capitol and watch my brothers and
sisters
um in uniform go and deploy to war and
these other side of the world and so I I
left my re-election campaign and uh
volunteered to deploy got trained in a
different job that they needed filling
in that medical unit uh and uh went off
on an 18 month long deploy appointment
so what do you what do you learn what do
you learn from that exactly called out
of your life what what did you learn
so much uh so much about
um the cost of War
uh both in in in the loss of people who
I was close to people who I served with
as well as people who I I had never met
one one the very first thing that I did
in my job well I served in Iraq we were
we were in a camp about 40 miles north
of Baghdad and the very first thing that
I did every single day that I was there
was to go through a list of names of
American Service soldiers who were
serving all across that country uh who
had been injured or hurt in combat the
day before in the previous 24 hours and
I had to go through that list Name by
name to look to see if there were any of
the soldiers from our Brigade which was
about close to 3 000 people who were
serving in four different parts of Iraq
at the time to make sure that okay well
this person has been injured they've
been hurt where are they are they
getting the care that they need are they
able to
um
get what they need in country and return
to duty do they need to be evacuated
quickly and basically make sure that
they had what they need whether they
were staying in country we eventually
got them back home uh to their families
if they had to leave but every single
day being confronted with the the high
human
cost of War
um that is is just so often not
discussed or talked about in the
headlines or even thought about by
politicians even if they might give lip
service to it and also therefore coming
from
um you know serving in the state house
and even some of our local politicians
in Hawaii they would come out and visit
the troops get the photo op be on the
ground for maybe 24 48 hours and then go
back and say all of these things as if
they knew it was happening and and just
the hypocrisy the hypocrisy of the
politicians in Washington that voted for
that war in Iraq but really without any
care for the consequences of that
decision or even thinking through what
are we actually doing here is it serving
the interests of the American people is
it yeah well what and what were you
doing there as far as you're concerned
you know you've had lots of time to
think about it now and you were actually
there and
so well for our our units our specific
unit there uh was there to go after
different terrorist elements this was
kind of where Al Qaeda was growing
stronger and obviously the rise of Isis
would occur a little later after after
we left but uh you know we we had a
number of different infantry units that
were going around in different areas and
trying to seek out those insurgents uh
that were attacking Americans and that
was that was the specific mission that
we had I was served in a medical unit
and so we were we were providing care
primarily for our American troops uh but
also
um
going out and and trying to help provide
care for local Iraqis in the area where
we were I visited Abu ghraib prison this
was after after the Scandal occurred but
I visited the hospital Abu grave prison
and was struck there about the medical
care that was being provided there uh to
to the prisoners
um which was exactly the same kind of
care that that we were providing to to
Injured service members who were also in
the country
um but it was it was seeing past kind of
the day-to-day tasks there in in the
being exposed on the literally on the
front lines to the war profiteering and
the military-industrial complex
the the Monopoly of KBR Halliburton uh
making an immeasurable amount of money
off of this war again this was I was
there for all of 2005 in Iraq and
that was in the early days uh and you
look at what has happened since uh over
the ensuing decades in Iraq and
Afghanistan and and again you know my
exposure in in Hawaii as a state
legislator was very limited when it
comes to foreign policy there wasn't
you know a lot that I knew but being
there experiencing it and at a basic
level understanding government spending
and taxpayer dollars and how are we
using it the accountability and going
and talking to these uh you know they
called them they labeled them Third
Country Nationals they would Import in
from places like Nepal and the
Philippines and Sri Lanka pay them
pennies essentially compared to how much
they were charging the federal
government to do things like okay well
we're going to cook food for the troops
every day and you know I started asking
well how you know if I walk into the
chow hall tent or building or whatever
and
get a bowl of cereal and a banana for
breakfast
how much is how much how much is KBR
Halliburton charging the U.S federal
government for that and it was some
outrageous price in 2005 it's like forty
dollars per service member per meal they
serve four meals a day and then started
we made friends with with these people
from the Philippines in Nepal and Sri
Lanka who were working there after I was
like how much you getting paid of 500 a
month right 500 so so that that actually
answers one of the questions I wanted to
bring up later you know I guess you've
answered it in two ways is that one of
the reasons I have a certain
sympathy for people like Bernie Sanders
and more recently for people like both
Russell Brand and Joe Rogan is because
there's a there's a necessary voice on
the left that targets something like
corporate governance government media
collusion at the highest levels yes
construction of these gigantic
tentacled multilateral organizations
that engage in regulatory capture and
then turn into let's say what Eisenhower
warned everybody about in relationship
to the military-industrial complex and
there's a necessary voice on the left
that I don't think precisely should be
striving against capitalism per se I
think that's the big mistake but should
be striving against fascist corporate
government collusion and we should all
be striving against that that's for sure
it'd be nice to get that straightened
out but you did yeah I think answer some
of my question about why I was going to
ask you later about why you supported
Bernie Sanders but we'll get back to
that so yeah I like to talk about that
later yeah okay okay so hey I got a
question for you also now I'm curious
about what how your views developed and
what they are now about the issue of
women in combat you know when we've
opened up the military to female
participation and generally speaking it
appears that old opening up Avenues of
participation to women has immense
benefits for women
if handled correctly for children
certainly on the economic front it
doubles the pool of available talent for
everyone I know the best predictor of
development in the third world is rights
accorded to women especially on the
economic front so that all looks like a
good thing but then you know I have my
skepticism about the Practical and
ethical utility of placing women on the
front lines for example in battle
positions and there's obviously a huge
disparity in physical strength and
probably an innate aggression and you
know that could go one way or another
because it isn't completely obvious that
the most aggressive soldiers are the
best even though that might seem
self-evident now you you've uh well
you've been there so what did you
conclude about the the the integration
of women into the Armed Forces what's
good about that and and what's not good
about it assuming there is anything not
good about it
my my position on this and this is based
on my experience is that
we should have the best people for the
job whatever that job may be the people
who are best equipped who are best
trained who have the capabilities both
you know mental emotional and physical
and that women on their face simply for
their gender should not be disqualified
from various jobs simply because of that
I have served alongside obviously many
men and women uh people who have been
very good at their jobs because of their
skills and their capabilities and others
who who don't have those skills and
capabilities and so whether those jobs
are serving as an infantry Soldier or an
artillery Soldier whether you're serving
in a combat unit or a support unit what
I want both as a soldier who I want to
be serving alongside but also I think
when you look at this from a policy
perspective what we should want as a
country is we we need the best people
who are going to do who are best
equipped to do the job not all women are
best equipped to serve in a combat unit
not all men are best equipped to serve
in a combat unit yeah so there should
not be
um an arbitrary standard simply based on
gender but rather set the standard and
if you meet the standard whether you're
a man or a woman then
you want the job go get it I I don't
believe so it's pure merit-based
evaluation correct or as you're
concerned correct I guess that would
bring up that brings up two problems I
suppose is one is that there are
physical standards set for jobs like
firefighter and policemen and right and
obviously military practitioner Soldier
and those standards especially in elite
units are extremely high and mean
they're high enough so most men can't
manage them at all and because of the
difference especially in upper body
strength women have a lot of stamina but
difference in upper body strength really
differentiates men from women if the
physical standards are set high enough
to exclude say 95 percent of men they're
they're going to exclude virtually all
women and then the question comes up
well should you keep the standards and
obviously some level of physical uh
prowess is necessary but if the standard
is 100 exclusionary on the sex front
then it raises the question of whether
the standard itself is sexist let's say
in a counterproductive Manner and so
sure I think the question is the
question is what is what is the basis
for the standard I and I know that there
are some standards that have been set
traditionally and in the military well
this is an elite unit so the standards
must must be exclusionary so we only get
the most elite people but are those
standards simply based on a concept of
elitism I guess in this context or are
they set based on the conditions that
soldiers serving in that particular unit
will be likely to face are they based on
on the reality of the the requirements
of the job and so if we're in a
situation and there are jobs both in the
military as you mentioned First
Responders and others if those standards
are set on a realistic assessment of
what this job will require and it turns
out that hey one out of a hundred women
who apply actually qualifies then so be
it uh you know whatever if there are a
greater number of men who qualify then
so be it uh if you have people who get
these jobs who cannot do the job then
it's pointless and it puts themselves
and it puts the entire unit and Mission
at risk in doing so
[Music]
despite the U.S blowing through the 31.4
trillion dollar debt ceiling last month
the White House still refuses to reduce
spending our national leadership has
buried their heads in the sand but you
don't have to call the experts at Birch
gold today and start diversifying into
gold for over 5 000 years gold has
withstood inflation geopolitical turmoil
and stock market crashes with help from
the experts at Birch gold you can own
gold and attack sheltered retirement
account Birch gold makes it easy to
convert an IRA or 401K into an IRA in
Precious Metals just text Jordan to
989898 to claim your free info kit on
gold and then talk to one of their
precious metal Specialists with an
A-Plus rating with the Better Business
Bureau thousands of happy customers and
countless five-star reviews you can
trust Birch gold to help protect your
savings text Jordan to
989898 today
[Music]
well there's a measurement science
that's been owed it to this for a long
time and and there are actually
guidelines for psychologists who do
assessment let's say in relationship to
a particular job some of those are
enshrined in appropriate law and then
the notion is first of all that you have
to do a job analysis which is okay what
is it that the people who are doing this
job who are good at it spend the bulk of
their time doing so you can measure that
although that's not easy for example
it's not that easy to measure their
performance of a middle manager for
example in a corporation because the
outcomes are difficult to specify but
but you can do a better or worse job of
that and if you do a good job then you
can find out what predicts prowess and
you can do that statistically and then
you can then you Define merit right
Merit is what makes you makes it likely
that you will do very well doing
whatever this job is for that's Merit
and and that can be handled properly the
problem is as you alluded to if you
accept Merit find in that manner as the
gold standard then you're going to have
to accept the outcome which is that
there isn't going to be radical Equity
at all levels of analysis in the
candidate pool and so you have to forego
that and it certainly seems I would say
that on the left side of things now
people are almost entirely unwilling to
forego that Equity outcome I mean even
Kamala Harris who should have known
better
tweeted out a few weeks ago her support
for this concept of equity and people
who aren't paying attention think that
means the quality of opportunity which
is not what it means at all which is why
it's a different word it means that if
the outcomes of the selection process
aren't equal across all conceivable
combinations of ethnicity and gender and
sex Etc that uh intersectional morass
then the system is by definition
exclusionary and Prejudiced and that
well that just kills that just kills
Merit assuming that Merit is not
completely equally distributed now one
other question on the female front so
one of the things that's Disturbed my
conscience with regards to women on the
front lines is that there's always the
possibility that you'll fall into the
hands of the enemy
and it wasn't very much fun for let's
say
British and American prisoners of War
in Nazi camps in uh World War II
although there were some Geneva
Convention Arrangements that were still
in place but I can't imagine what it
would be like to be a front-line woman
who fell into enemy hands I mean that's
a level of absolute bloody catastrophic
hell that I think that that we should be
very very cautious about exposing anyone
to and so I have a proclivity to think
that women are differentially
susceptible to exploitation on the
captured enemy front and I don't know
exactly you know given Credence to what
you say about making sure we have the
most qualified people
you know maybe you can ask people to
face their death I don't know if you're
if it's okay to ask them to face endless
gang rape and then death
you know that's
pushing the envelope and so I don't know
what you think about that I imagine you
the thoughts of that sort must have gone
through your mind from time to time
sure it is it is the most
um
war war is tragic and ugly to say the
least and you're facing some of the most
horrific conditions uh which is one of
the reasons why I don't support the
draft is because as a soldier I don't
want to be serving alongside anybody who
hasn't made that choice to be there who
hasn't made that choice to be willing
to make those sacrifices not only to
give up one's life in service to our
country but to face the plethora of what
could be the absolute worst case
scenarios
um that that that's my perspective and
and so whether it's uh those scenarios
are facing a male or a female Soldier
these are some of the things that you
know both the training of of the
Practical implications but obviously uh
the mental preparation for how anything
could possibly go bad is essential
before sending troops into that
situation okay so your sense it sounds
like your sense is that
you know if people have been fully
apprised of the risks and I think we
outlined the most substantive risk on
the female side if people are fully
apprised of that risk and there's
evidence that they actually understand
what that means which is no simple
matter that it's okay
to allow them to make that choice but
you that's partly why you introduced the
idea that there's no compulsion in
military conscription also partly
because you don't get the best out of
people if they're compelled obviously so
okay so so anything else on the combat
front or can we turn back to the
Democrats I I'd like you to do it well
let's I'll I'll walk us back into that
because
um
it it it is what motivated me to run for
Congress we talked about you know okay
well I've been with the Democratic party
for for 20 years I chose to join the
Democratic party uh my experience on two
Middle East deployments is what really
drove me to uh to run for Congress it
wasn't something I had great any
ambition for frankly uh when I ran for
the State House in 2002 but being
exposed to the cost of War being exposed
to the both the military-industrial
complex but what you described very well
earlier is this this collusion in the
narrative and the push coming from
elected officials in Washington the the
establishment of people in both
political parties who are part of this
war-mongering uh una party uh the so
much of of I guess the mainstream Media
or Legacy Media that we have seen uh you
know amp up and beat the drums for war
over and over not not interested in
actually exposing the truth or asking
any tough questions is it kind comes to
foreign policy and the decisions to go
to war and of course now even more so
we're seeing big Tech being a a major
contributor in in this establishment
narrative it's what drove me to to run
for Congress to be able to be in a
position where I could
um actually serve in a place to help
make decisions that would prevent us
from continuing to go and wage these
costly counterproductive Wars that that
actually end up undermining our own
countries uh National Security
one of the main decisions why I chose
one of the main reasons why I chose to
lead the Democratic party is because the
Democratic party has become the war
party those voices that we talked about
a little bit on the left who
challenged uh the the
military-industrial complex challenged
this pro-war narrative that we're seeing
across the board
um I I don't see them anymore and worse
yet we have leaders in the Democratic
party who are the ones who are actually
amping up uh these these
counterproductive Wars who are amping up
these new cold Wars against Russia and
China were amping up and escalating and
pushing us to the brink of of nuclear
war which is where we sit right now as a
nation which which threatens us and and
threatens the world frankly and doing so
without any thought or consideration for
uh the reality of something that was was
very eye-opening for us here in Hawaii
back in January of 2018 when we had uh
we had we had a missile alert where we
thought that North Korea was sending a
nuclear missile to us and then we had 15
minutes to live the government telling
us oh seek shelter immediately this is
not a drill missile inbound to Hawaii
but we were confronted with the reality
that there is no shelter there is
literally no place to go to go so not
only have our leaders failed Us in the
sense of getting us to this point where
that is now a reality that every single
one of us lives with right now
but also they tell us oh seek shelter
get inside stay inside there is no
shelter they may have some fancy
shelters where they may be able to
survive and continue to wage war in the
event that we get there but the vast
majority of people in this country
people around the world will be the ones
that suffer the catastrophic uh
consequences of a nuclear Holocaust
there is no shelter they have not
provided that shelter and so
this question of of how my experience is
there on these deployments the
experiences that I've had throughout
this time uh was one of the main reasons
why I left the Democratic party and
frankly was one of the main reasons that
that uh back in 2016
that I saw the necessity to leave as
Vice chair of the DNC
to go and speak out against uh Hillary
Clinton's warmongering record as she was
trying to become our country's
commander-in-chief and the dangers of
what would happen if that became a
reality
okay so it was primarily a consequence
of concerns about well concerns about
the military-industrial complex okay
let's segue for a minute then
um I made a couple of videos about the
Russia Ukraine war you know making a
foray into a domain that's obviously
contentious enough to produce a war
let's say and uh here's my problem
um
I don't understand now I've listened to
a lot of hawks on the American side talk
about well two things about the fact
that it appears likely this is
independent of the merits of this claim
it appears likely that the Ukraine
supported by the West in the manner it
has been supported can do serious damage
to Russia's uh conventional arms force
and I think there is evidence that the
ukrainians and the West
are pushing the Russians back and God
only knows how far that will go and uh
the Hawks that I've talked to said
that's a good thing it's in our interest
to ensure that Russia is no longer a
conventional military threat and
no I have a certain degree of Sympathy
For That viewpoint but then here's the
counter problem is the as I see it so I
try to look forward into the future and
I think okay
what is a victory for the West look like
forget about Ukraine Ukraine Victory as
they get their territory back and
there's a wall between them and the
Russia Russians and the pesky Russians
leave them alone and they go back to
whatever level of appalling corruption
they had managed before the war right so
that's the Ukraine Victory the West
well let's say we could do this two ways
Okay so
Putin is deposed
however that happens and then and then
what and then we have a better leader in
Russia we have a more trustworthy leader
yeah I don't think so the Russians
haven't got a great history of that and
no matter what you think of Putin it's
definitely the case that he isn't the
worst leader that emerged in Russia in
the last hundred years by any measure so
that's a big problem and then I think
well instead of Putin being replaced by
someone who could be better but probably
won't be will have a Russia that's
really fragmented and that you know the
country in some ways collapses and
that's a really bad idea because there's
a lot of nuclear bombs there and if you
get the fragmentation of that power
structure into multiple uh Chieftains
let's say and a few of them emerge armed
with nuclear bombs then we have a major
problem on our hands and that seems to
me to be a highly likely outcome and so
and then if we weaken Russia severely
and permanently then we have the problem
of a severely and permanently weakened
Russia that's a big problem because they
produce a lot of fertilizer
and the Europeans happen to be dependent
on them for a lot of their energy needs
so that doesn't look very wise and then
we have the absolute bloody catastrophic
probability that if Putin starts to lose
in any serious way
and so starts to believe that Russian
territorial Integrity is threatened
however he defines that that he has an
immense array of unbelievably powerful
Next Generation weapons at its disposal
and why the hell wouldn't he use them
and so so let's walk through that I mean
imagine the West Winds
okay what does that mean I don't see
what that means I I don't I and I I
haven't heard anyone describe to me what
the the goal of this war is you know
we're supporting the heroic ukrainians
it's like yeah you're a you're a
moralizing scoundrel that's not a plan
that's that's idiot hand waving as bad
as the environmental you know doomsayers
it's the same thing cheap moral victory
make makeup Pro can you make a pro and
then a cautionary War case in
relationship to the Russia and Ukraine
what's in America's True interests as
far as you're concerned well well this
is this is exactly you have very clearly
laid out
not only the problem with how this
President Biden and frankly uh Democrat
and Republican leaders in Congress who
are applauding and pushing for and
escalating this war is how short-sighted
they are but also this has been the
problem in U.S foreign policy from our
leaders for so long is
is they are not actually thinking
clearly if they're thinking at all about
what is what is our goal what is our
objective what you said what does a wind
look like how is it defined even
theoretically even theoretically yeah
whether it's whether it's realistic or
not just saying well we're fighting for
democracy that's nice not a goal also
it's in direct
um it's in direct conflict with the
reality of their actions even here in
the United States about how many
undemocratic decisions and increasingly
authoritarian decisions they are making
but on this question of of the war in in
uh what is essentially a proxy war
against Russia the United States is
waging a proxy war against Russia uh
Ukrainian people are paying the price
they have not outlined what a win looks
like anytime anyone asks President Biden
or anyone in the Biden Administration is
when does this end how does this end
they throw out this this cheap one-liner
of saying well well that's up to Putin
whenever Putin stops oh good that's good
that's up to the guy with the hydrogen
bombs exactly that's a brilliant that's
bloody brilliant look I know what I
would do if I was Putin I know it I know
it as soon as I felt that I was in
danger of a true loss see I think Putin
will settle for the devastation of
Ukraine I think he could claim that as a
victory the utter Devastation of the
Ukraine because it stays out of Western
hands but if Putin ever believed that
his people even believed that they were
now under attack let's say by German
tanks let's say the probability that
he's used a tactile Tactical
Battlefield nuclear weapons seems to me
to be extraordinarily high it's like
well it is but for me it's like well why
wouldn't he and the issue is well you
don't want to escalate it's like yeah
that's already factored into the
decision
so there is this Theory I don't know if
you've heard it before of escalate to
de-escalate and so so the the response
from the U.S government is always well
we don't think he'll we we don't think
he'll resort to that or or uh we don't
think that uh you know we're not
striving here people say we're not even
sure that his nuclear weapons are that
great or or will really work in the way
that that uh we we think could cause
cause major damage but the fact that
they're even theorizing about any of
this without recognizing the the very
direct and real cost to human
civilization on this planet is exactly
the problem they're living in some
fantasy land that it's hard to connect
uh it's hard to connect with because
it's not based in the reality of the
situation you're facing it and you have
laid it out very clearly of the
different possible outcomes we've heard
President Biden say and others uh in the
Department of Defense we got to get rid
of that guy Putin but not actually for
who for who for for who and and to what
end to what is the alternative they have
no idea who will step up or what kind of
Russia will exist in the aftermath of
that we can look throughout history to
see how U.S foreign policy especially in
regime change Wars have failed so
spectacularly in different regions
around the world because they go and
pick which dictator they like or don't
like well we'll take this guy out
replace him with this guy and then all
of these disastrous unintended negative
consequences come both for the United
States and the people in these countries
and and yet here we are now where we are
facing that exact same Prospect with the
country that has the most nuclear
weapons in the entire world
right so look at what happened when
after the Germans went into France in
World War one and wreaked havoc in that
idiot War World War One
um
their their entire Industrial
machine was devastated they had a period
of hyperinflation they were subject to
that extraordinarily punitive Versailles
treaty and yes that could be imposed
upon them because they were devastated
and hypothetically we could do the same
thing with Russians if they're beat very
badly on the conventional front and they
emerge weak and we put punitive measures
in place to keep them weak and then we
might remember just exactly what
happened to Germany as a consequence of
the Versailles treaty because they
didn't stay weak for long and you know
maybe the Russian nuclear weapons are no
better than anything else the Soviets
built but that doesn't mean a few of
them won't go off and it's really not
going to take that many because after
all they are nuclear weapons and so even
one that doesn't work that well is going
to be a lot more spectacular than
anything that happened in 1945 in
Hiroshima we can be absolutely certain
of that so again you know the mystery is
fair enough man we want Victory okay no
problem what's the victory
have you ever read the fine print that
appears when you start browsing in
incognito mode it says that your
activity might still be visible to your
employer your school or your internet
service provider to actually stop people
from monitoring your online activity you
need expressvpn think about all the
times you've used Wi-Fi at a coffee shop
hotel or even a friend's house without
expressvpn every site you visit can be
logged by the Admin of that Network
that's still true even when you're in
incognito mode
expressvpn is an app that encrypts all
of your network data and reroutes it
through a network of secure servers so
that your private online activity stays
private expressvpn works on all your
devices and is super easy to use the app
has one button you tap it to connect and
your browsing activity is secure stop
letting strangers invade your online
privacy by visiting expressvpn.com
Jordan that's expr
essvpn.com Jordan and get three extra
months free
expressvpn.com Jordan
[Music]
one of the common responses that you you
hear from both people in the White House
from politicians in Washington uh both
when talking specifically about Russia
but you hear this very often whenever
they see there's a there's a bad actor
on the world stage well the United
States needs to take action to punish
them to send them a message and whether
this is through economic Warfare or
kinetic or tactical uh you know Warfare
direct
whether indirect or direct this is a
line that they have well we have to
punish them we have to punish them and
so they're making decisions about well
we got to make life hard for them punish
them in whatever means that we can but
not actually thinking about within the
context that they should be which is for
us in this country what action should we
take that is in the best interest for
the well-being of the American people in
our country International Security and
our freedom and who's the them that's
the other things punish the Russians
it's like well who exactly are you
talking about here are you talking about
the elites that are in control are you
talking about the whole damn population
for how long and and as you already
pointed out to what end to what end so
to what end to what end is all this and
well we we touched on that a little bit
you can't you can't help but and this is
where I suppose I turn into a leftist in
some real sense
um at least in relationship to what you
might describe as a stance against
gigantism it's like to what end well how
about
um military industrial profits that are
staggering how about that end and if
there's no other end in sight and I'm
not particularly skeptical about
capitalism except in its gigantism forms
it's like if there's no other end
being outlined well I'm gonna go with
profit as the motive because
if you have a better Theory man lay it
out but I don't see anything and you
know given given that it was Eisenhower
who who knew what he was talking about
uh having been supreme commander of the
Allied Forces when he warned about the
military industrial complex being the
biggest threat we faced back in what
about 1959 that was something to take
seriously and it's something to take
seriously again so so what do you have
any sense and have you talked to anybody
who as far as you're concerned has some
reasonable Vision about what actually
might be done in a sensible manner on
the Russia Ukraine front like well the
reasonable people who are rooted in
reality and not fantasy understand that
the only way to bring about an end to
this war is through diplomatic means
of bringing together the different
stakeholders and actually coming to and
understanding whether it's through the
form of a treaty or whatever that
agreement may look like where no one is
going to walk away happy but there is uh
there is a reasonable approach to being
able to find that agreement you'll hear
from the Biden Administration anytime
this is brought well well zielinski and
Ukraine have to be the ones to drive
this they're the ones yeah right the
terms and everything else the only way
that they're able to continue doing what
they're doing is through the means that
the United States largely the United
States but also some other countries in
Europe are providing them with the
weapons and the money and the ability to
do so so the United States has President
Biden we could definitely stop lying
about we could definitely stop lying
about the fact that this is Ukraine yeah
exactly nobody in there nobody with any
sense at all
believes that I mean we're in a proxy
war for sure and we have from the
beginning and so we might as well be
crystal clear about that exactly so hey
so Trump popped up the other day as he
has a proclivity to do and he said If I
Was President I'd stop this war in 24
hours and you know that's typical Trump
overstatement I would say but it is the
case that the war emerged on Biden's
watch and not Trump's watch and that's
not nothing and so
um what do you make of what do you make
of that what do you make of trump
when we diagnose the Democrats a bit
let's let's turn to the Republicans only
Trump only Trump knows uh what what
Trump would be doing uh in this
situation but as we're talking about a
diplomatic end to this war something
that should have happened a very long
time ago something the Biden
Administration has been blocking
categorically blocking even efforts
between Russian Ukrainian officials on
their own who are trying to come
together it's been the United States
that has been blocking them telling
Ukraine no leave the table don't
negotiate how have they been blocking do
you what are the there are there are
multiple reports publicly of of uh Biden
Administration officials telling you
Craig not to negotiate as well as other
countries who have been also sharing
that they've been getting that same
message going all the way back to I
think uh March you know shortly after
this war kicked off when they're I heard
the same thing I heard that from people
I was talking to who knew what they were
talking about exactly too that the
Russians there were there were Avenues
open quite early in the conflict where
diplomatic
diplomatic maneuvering could have
hypothetically proved proved useful and
that that was blocked now I'm not saying
it would have been useful but I couldn't
understand when this all broke out why
the number one priority of Western
leaders who instead gathered to you know
uh make fun of of Putin's hyper
masculinity and it was a pretty sad
bunch of wimps gathered around the G7
table who were managing that I might say
instead of noting that if they had any
sense at all they'd be trying to broker
something like an intelligent
Arrangement so that we didn't face the
the likely possibility of being dragged
by our shirt sleeve into the maw of the
military-industrial complex and end up
all torn to shreds as a consequence
which I think is the most likely outcome
of what's happening now because what I
know something about World War one and
World War II and one of the and the
other Wars we've been in since is the
net what tends to happen is you get
pulled in one stupid step at a time
especially if if you're also turning a
blind eye to the Chic chicanery of your
wealthy friends who are profiting like
Mad on the war front and so people
always I think they said you know when
World War One started it was like the
troops will be home for Christmas it's
like yeah I guess that didn't happen and
then it's many many years later and it's
not like that didn't happen in Vietnam
or Iraq or Afghanistan exactly this will
be over soon it's like yes yeah I don't
think so that isn't how these things
worse work no and and who walked away
who walked away with the most prophets
in the war in Afghanistan alone
majored event major defense contractors
what does the Department of Defense have
to say about the money that was spent
there they can't even account for the
vast majority of money that was spent
there what can we say we're talking
Billy billions of dollars billions or
hundreds of billions of dollars yes
right hundreds of billions of dollars
trillions if I remember correctly
overall yes trillions spent on that war
especially unaccounted for exactly spent
an unaccounted for right so that's
pretty damn convenient for whoever
for the military industrial complex and
and then you have these defense
contractors again saying publicly
war is good for business
period well there's no doubt about that
exactly if you're not on the front line
work because your bank account isn't
that useful to you when you're dead but
if you're if someone else is dead and
the consequence of that is that your
bank account is accruing profits quite
nicely well you know that's that's all
well and good especially if you're a
psychopathic narcissist and it's all
about you and that's right and so and
there's no shortage of that going around
at the highest echelons of of what would
you call it fascist collusion and we're
seeing that pretty much everywhere yeah
so okay so let's turn to the Republicans
okay we've we've we've had our shot at
the warmongering Democrats let's say
um although I think we'll return to
their problems but let's look at the
Republican side now you're sitting as an
independent at the moment that's correct
I've got that right yes good
um and so you're not aligned with the
Republicans or the Democrats which
either makes you extremely hard to get
along with and someone no one likes or
right because that's a possibility yeah
or you know or you're in a neutral
position in some sense at the moment
with a lot of experience on the Democrat
front
right a lot of detailed experience and
so what what do you think is good about
the Republicans and what do you think
they're lacking
well I think there there are a number of
Republicans uh who are obviously who are
a part of this permanent Washington
establishment that whether we're talking
about the issue of War and Peace or
we're talking about you know the the
crony capitalism I'm you know I'm not
against capitalism either but you look
at the crony capitalism of Industries
like uh big farmer the so-called Health
Care industry that really doesn't care
about people's actual Health uh and
well-being you could go kind of across
the board of what is wrong with the
corruption in permanent Washington where
politicians are essentially paid off and
therefore working for the interests of
these industries rather than the
interests of the people that they've
been elected to serve and there are both
Republicans and Democrats who are not
only entrenched in this but who are in
those positions because of this this
system and and it is what that's
outright fascism by by definition right
yeah because the fascists the definition
of fascism is essentially corporate
government collusion at the highest
levels and so yeah the Deep state that
everyone paranoid is paranoid about and
for good reason is essentially a
collusionist fascist regime and
increasingly an international
collusionist fascist regime and when
people say crony capitalism you know
it's a weak it's a weak phrase for
what's essentially a fascist Enterprise
so and as you said you know there are
people in the Democrat Party and in the
Republicans who are pulled into that web
of collusion and and it's easy for that
to happen too because it is
yeah yeah we're sucked into the system
quickly and you think well this is just
the way it works and so if I want to do
anything in Washington if I want to get
anywhere even people who people who I
know who came in I got elected with best
of intentions yeah uh it is very quickly
inculcated like within the first few
days of being there that this is the way
the world Works buddy and if you want to
get anywhere to be able to do what you
came here to do well this is the game
and the rules you've got to play by and
then very quickly before you know it uh
those those good intentions that you
came up with uh are lost and you are no
longer serving the interests of the
people you are serving you have become a
puppet of those who are the Puppet
Masters well you are a new fight when
you first enter the ring you know even
once you're elected I mean in terms of
the constituents you represent you're
sort of at a pinnacle but as a newbie in
Washington you know what you're a little
freshman they're literally called
freshmen you get elected exactly you
work freshman class and you've got known
knowledge and you've got no allies and
and of and then there's also going to be
the part of you that one hangs out Hank
wants to hang out with the cool kids
exactly and so right absolutely and some
of that's actually just humility you
know is that because you don't have any
allies or friends and you do need to
know how the system operates and so
that's a big problem so what did you
have to be grounded in principles you
have to go there and be grounded in your
principles and your your mission and
your purpose uh which was not just to go
and like get along and be around this
interesting group of people and get the
fancy title though that is some people's
purpose but in order to be truly
effective there uh you have to go there
and be very grounded in your principles
and purpose so that you don't then
become the puppet for uh these other
powerful interests and and that that
frankly is exactly what I went through
is when I got to Washington you know I
was lauded as like oh my gosh she's a
rising star the headline she's a rising
star of the democratic a party and you
know checking all the different boxes of
all the things that they look for the
labels that they're look for she's a
woman of color she's a veteran she's
this and she's that and then they
realized like oh hold on a second she's
not just going to allow us to control
her she's not just going to read the
talking points that we send out in the
morning email she's not just going to
vote based on the way that we tell her
to do they realize that I did I wasn't
there and we and was we was we that was
we the DNC essentially I mean my
experience with talking to Congressman
in Washington is basically it's actually
been somewhat
it's been disenchanting and I've also
developed more Sympathy for the Congress
people because
well they have hard jobs it isn't
obvious that anyone sensible would ever
take that job even though it's necessary
that they do well
the star the the new Congressman they
spend 20 to 30 hours a week fundraising
they can't do that in their offices they
have to rent another office and they
spend all their time on their phone so
they're basically glorified
televangelists or telemarketers
um 40 of them don't live in Washington
and sleep in their offices so there's no
Community there they have to run for
reelection every two years which means
that not only are they you know in a job
that's very difficult as newbies but
it's a very unstable job they've
destabilized their families by doing so
it's hard for them to move their spouse
to Washington and then as spent this I
think is especially true on the Democrat
side but it's also true in the
Republican side they're facing constant
pressure from the powers that be who are
very entrenched to do nothing but raise
money for the damn party even though
they waste almost all of that and to tow
the bloody party line and of course you
have to have a certain amount of party
discipline or you don't have a party so
anyways that's a now so why don't you
what what real Temptations did you face
and you know how did that warp you
because there's no way you get through
this without a certain degree of warping
and and how did you
and and to what degree were you
successful in resisting that and and why
did you manage it so let's start with
that what were the major Temptations
facing you when you first went to
Washington
well like I said within the first few
days of arriving there before even being
sworn in as a member of Congress uh
there was a bifurcation we had we had 84
people who were elected to congress in
2012 new members of Congress uh I
believe 50 if the numbers are right I
think there were 50 Democrats and 34
Republicans and so for the first week
that we were there and what they call
freshman orientation we were going
through different policy briefings uh
with people presenting on you know a
whole host of the issues that we Face uh
and people presenting from different
sides different perspectives
um and we all went through that together
and then after that it was okay
Democrats you're going to go here
Republicans you're going to go there and
that's where uh two things happened
number one is is the the partisan
Direction coming to members of Congress
basically preaching in a nutshell
it is party first you will do what is
best for the party first rather than
thinking about well what's in the best
interest of uh my constituents or what
about if I disagree with the party and
this is a decision that I want to make
you will make your decisions based on
what's best for the party if you have an
idea to introduce a bill best not to go
work with someone from the other party
because that'll make them look good or
make it harder for us to beat them in
the next election so not about how do we
solve problems not about how do we be
effective in serving our constituents
all about the party power keeping power
getting it back those are the two things
and both of us got those same messages
from our respective political party
leaders part and parcel of that was
exactly what you talked about there was
a PowerPoint slide that was put up I
remember it very distinctly because it
was so shocking about here's what your
day will look like
and how many hours of the day morning
noon and night will be spent either at
fundraisers with lobbyists representing
different Industries or as you said on
the phone off-site making calls to those
lobbyists to try to get more of them to
come and give you money at the next
day's fundraisers breakfast lunch and
dinner and as I was looking at this
slide it was split up hour by hour
here's what your days will look like if
you're doing 16 hour days exactly and
how the vast majority of a single day
was not spent studying issues that you
would have to tackle in committee or you
know working on a legislation that
you're going to introduce the vast
majority of hours of that day would be
spent fundraising from lobbyists
representing special interests and
that's the expectation to get on certain
committees that you want to get on
you've got to give them as you've got to
give the party a certain amount of money
and all of these different things and
and that's the frustration that the
American people have with our polit
ticks right now and obviously it's been
going on for a long time is they know we
know this we can see through their
results that they don't actually care
about making decisions that that are in
the best interest of the people are
actually solving these problems it's
being reactive and ultimately when it
comes down to it when you you hear what
they are saying the the for example like
oh well prescription drug prices are
flying through the roof and people can't
afford insulin diabetics can't afford
insulin you know seniors can't afford
the medicine that they need but when you
actually look at the results even though
politicians complain about it
there's not a regulation of big Pharma
that would actually seek to start
solving some of these problems in the
ways that people need help and that's
just one example of many
we'll be back in one moment first we
wanted to give you a sneak peek at
Jordan's new documentary logos and
literacy
I was very much struck by how the
translation of the biblical writings
jump started the development of literacy
across the entire world illiteracy was
the norm the pastor's home was the first
school and every morning it would begin
with singing the Christian faith is a
singing religion probably 80 percent of
scripture memorization today exists only
because of what is sung
here we have a Gutenberg Bible printed
on the Press of Johann gooper science
and religion are opposing forces in the
world but historically that has not been
the case now the book is available to
everyone from Shakespeare to modern
education and medicine and science to to
civilization itself it is the most
influential book in all history and
hopefully people can walk away with at
least a sense of that
you know here's here's maybe part of the
underlying problem so I went to the
Republican Governors association meeting
in November and
I remember one of the people who
presented they were trying to rally the
troops to some degree sharing policy
information amongst themselves as
Governors and a lot of the Republican
Governors are pretty good at
implementing
um you know micro policies and and
there's something to be said for that
right to that boots on the ground
pragmatic confidence they weren't very
good at
um putting forward a vision and they
weren't really very good at even
rallying the fundraisers you know with a
rousing call to action and I think
that's a problem on the Republican side
but one of the presentations was
extremely interesting to me as someone
interested in measurement because the
the person got up and talked about how
effective the Republicans had been in
certain jurisdictions in certain key
elections in outspending the Democrats
on the advertising front and I thought I
thought three things at the same time
the first thing I thought is there is
almost no evidence that election
spending has any effect whatsoever on
the outcome of the election it's a
marginal effect on most and so and it's
it's so marginal that political
scientists have been debating for 20
years about whether or not election
spending helps at all whether you're an
incumbent or a challenger and so the
fact that and then so that's a big
problem it's like it is not obvious that
what you're paying for works that's a
big problem second
why in the world did we ever assume that
the right metric for electoral uh uh
confidence
in in running a campaign is how much
money you spend no one in their right
mind thinks that the right measure for
doing a bathroom renovation properly is
the fact that it cost a million dollars
when it could have cost ten thousand
sure that's just Preposterous so it's a
so it's a uh you know it's a measurement
problem in the fundamental analysis and
then even worse on the Republican side
and I think I asked this question which
didn't make me very popular at the
meeting itself which is I don't know if
you noticed but 95 percent of the Legacy
Media to whom you're devoting all this
money actually really can't stand you or
anything you stand for and is completely
100 percent tilted against you so on
what grounds do you base your claim that
spending more money than the Democrats
feeding this god-awful Legacy Media
machine is well it's not effective and
it's counterproductive and they hate you
so what are you doing and and so then
what happens in Washington it's very
similar is the the parties devolve to
the simplistic notion that those Junior
congressmen who can beat the drum most
effectively to raise money are ipso
facto the most loyal and competent and
that's all based on a whole
misapprehension of
it's a measurement problem it's like the
money you raise is not an indication of
your competence it's the same problem we
were talking about with relationship to
women in the military to begin with what
the hell are you measuring now okay you
now for whatever reason
you go out on a lot of democrat
committees and you ended up as Vice
chairman you had a pretty stellar career
very rapidly accelerating now you
claimed that you weren't one of the
junior Congress people that could be you
know subsumed all that easily into the
military-industrial complex for lack of
a better word so if that was the case
then why in the world were you also able
to
to move into leadership positions in the
Democrat Party because hypothetically
you would have had to go along and I'm
sure you went along to some degree but
you would have to go along that's what
they're telling you you have to go along
to get something done but you're saying
you didn't particularly go along or at
least not always and yet you had a
stellar career so so how how is that
possible
these opportunities uh the these you
know Vice chair of the DNC we'll start
with that one uh because I was I was a
top official of the national Democratic
party from
2000 I guess I was sworn in January 2013
up until my choice to leave that
position in in 2016.
um I was sitting in a the back seat of a
car shortly it was around the time of of
President Obama's uh re-election
inauguration
I got a phone call
saying hey what would your answer be if
you were asked to serve as Vice chair of
the DNC I had been in office for less
than a month
and my response to this person who
called me was uh I don't know what is a
vice chair of the DNC what do they do
what what would the expectations be what
would uh you know what kinds of things
would I be able to do is this just to
buy a name thing or would I actually be
able to do something I I didn't have any
idea what that was but I was offered
that position and I thought well hey I
agreed to do it because I thought maybe
this is an opportunity for me able to be
bring some and affect some change the
Democratic National party so these a lot
of these different things
um came came to me without me seeking
them out at all why why because of what
I talked about they excuse me they saw
um they saw the superficial
and they thought well this is somebody
who we can you know if I did go along
I I can imagine I think it would be a
safe assumption to say that that they
would have continued to push me up into
the highest levels if I had been someone
who that they thought I was that I would
just go along and I could tell the story
that they wanted to tell and say the
things that they wanted me to say and so
when they asked me to be Vice chair of
the DNC I had been in office less than a
month and who's they who's the they that
are asking it is it is it is you know
the the Democratic leadership in
congress uh Democratic Leadership uh
within within the DNC and also I got a
lot of media coverage that I I didn't
have a press secretary I didn't have a
publicist I didn't seek any of this
stuff out but I kept getting calls hey
we want you on our show we want to
feature you in this magazine we want to
do this you want to do that and and it I
I question it a little bit but
ultimately I was like hey look this is
an opportunity for me to be able to
reach out to people and say what I want
to say and get across what I want to get
across so I took advantage of those
opportunities checked the identity boxes
they were hoping that you might be well
I want to get back to this issue of they
too you know my experience with
organizations and activists for that
matter is that the they turns out to be
a very small number of people who are
very well connected who are continually
maneuvering and sometimes that's a
consequence of their unbelievable
competence and sometimes it's a
capacity to manipulate and and uh
capitalize on narcissism and that's a
probably a problem in politics and
entertainment and media more than
anywhere else for obvious reasons
um and I don't want to paint everyone
with the same brush because that's
that's foolish but that they that are
looking at you and thinking well you
know we can certainly look use someone
with an image like hers for us and
that's not all cynical by the way
um who who are the who are the people
who are making those decisions as far as
you are concerned if we go back say well
when you were asked to serve as Vice
chairman who are making those who is
making those decisions well I mean
obviously Nancy Pelosi is one of them uh
you know Debbie Wasserman Schultz was
the the head of the the DMC at the time
uh there were people in the Obama
Administration uh there are people who
uh were not elected officials and and
within the DNC I'm sure there were
probably political donors as well who
had a part a part of that but but you
know we'll start with Nancy Pelosi I had
won my primary election here in Hawaii
uh in August of 2012 and
um that in Hawaii Hawaii is a very
strong Democratic state that was
essentially the election I did have a
republican opponent and still had to go
and win the general election but it was
a safe assumption that I was going to I
had de facto already won uh the election
and within a few weeks of winning that
election I had gotten a call from Nancy
Pelosi saying would you like to come and
speak during prime time at the
Democratic National Convention that was
going to happen uh shortly shortly after
that this was in Charlotte North
Carolina in 2012.
someone who had not even yet been
elected to congress for the first time
being invited to speech
it was I was surprised I was very
surprised uh the topic she was asking me
to talk about is one that is obviously
near and dear to my heart to talk about
veterans and uh and so I said yes of
course I will do that I went there and I
spoke and I did interviews with just
about every media channel that was out
there and but but all of these different
things
uh you know there were not opportunities
that that were given uh to to the vast
majority of people I guess I'll put it
that way yeah but my decision my
decision uh to leave as Vice chair of
the DNC was one of those pivotal moments
where in the lead-up to making that
decision it was
it was driven by a couple of things one
was the recognition of their the rules
of the DNC is that you're you're as an
officer of the DNC you are not involved
in uh tilting the scales or getting
involved in democratic primaries
especially Democratic presidential
primaries that you have different
candidates they go out they make their
case and then the party coalesces around
whoever the winner of that primary is
well in the lead up to that 2016 primary
election I started to see very quickly
that the decisions that were being made
not in consultation with us as Vice
chairs of the DNC but unilaterally by W
Wasserman Schultz who was the chair who
was very close with Hillary Clinton were
made to give an advantage to Hillary
Clinton for example limiting the number
of debates where she would have to face
Bernie Sanders uh putting them at times
where you know I think there was one
that was scheduled during like the Super
Bowl or something like that when nobody
was going to be watching or paying
attention to a presidential uh debate
there were there were con newly
implemented rules that said any
Democratic presidential candidate that
participates in a debate that is not
sanctioned by the DNC will will be
banned from participating in any future
DNC debate and and for me I'm just
thinking like if our if our purpose and
our cause is to
increase involvement and engagement in
our democracy to get more people to pay
attention to learn more about these
different candidates to actually have a
real dialogue about these important
issues why would you be punishing
someone for going out and trying to
engage in doing exactly that why would
you be trying to limit the debate that
the American people can be exposed to
and involved with and it was very clear
why those decisions were made to give an
advantage to Hillary Clinton who was
designated as the one that the
Democratic Party
powers that be wanted to win that
election and so their lack of Integrity
uh coupled with the fact that Hillary
Clinton wanted to be our commander in
chief I still serve in the Army Reserves
now for almost 20 years so for me as
someone serving in the reserves at the
time as well as a member of Congress as
well as an American to have her in a
position where both Democrats and the
mainstream media refused to challenge
her on her record both as a senator in
every position she had held previous
Secretary of State and so forth
previously
on on her she is she is the queen of
Warhawk she is the queen of war mongers
no one challenged her they just said
well she's got all these positions she's
the most qualified I and so many of my
brothers and sisters in uniform were
like hold on a second you need to ask
her and hold her to account for the
concept disastrous consequences for the
decisions that she has made the wars
that she has advocated for the things
that she has done that has not only
undermined our national security but
come at Great cost to the men and women
who volunteers
why do you think okay two questions on
the Hillary front I mean one of the
reasons she
terrified me I suppose
is that it was pretty damn obvious that
she's been aiming at the presidency for
50 years sure and that's a long time
right and you've got to ask yourself
what is driving someone who's that
committed to that goal like and the goal
is clearly the presidency it's not what
could be done with the presidency and
it's not like she was dragged in Kicking
and Screaming by people who were
overwhelmingly impressed by her prowess
and who you know enjoined upon her for
moral reasons to consider a career in
government it's like no no she's being
laser focused on being
the first female president of the United
States for God only knows how long and
so that that's concerning to me but then
but then that doesn't answer the next or
address the next mystery which is
well given that she's a Democrat and
given that the Democrats should in
principle be somewhat skeptical let's
say of the a fascist collusion between
Corporation and government and a little
bit skeptical on the military industrial
side why
do you think that her record indicates
that she's such a hawk on the military
front like is that a compensation is she
attempting this is a cheap you know
psychological interpretation could
easily be wrong is she trying to look
tough on the on the foreign policy front
to you know to mitigate against any
criticism of the fact that she might not
be capable of that or what's going on
why is she doing that I don't think
that's such a cheap uh analysis or or
assumption to make because that that
that is a reality and that is one of my
fears not only about her but also about
some others who have been in those uh
types of position uh you look at someone
like Kamala Harris for example she's a
breath away from the presidency and I I
have lost yes
unfortunately yes exactly which is
incredibly concerning I I have lost
track of how many uh service member
American Service members I have spoken
with who are absolutely terrified uh
about the prospect of a president Harris
for that reason she's she's you mean
facing off against someone like Vladimir
Putin for example wouldn't that be
lovely Kamala Harris versus Vladimir
Putin oh yeah or or anyone but somebody
like her uh who is weak who lacks
understanding in foreign policy who
feels the need to prove herself to prove
her strength to to stand up with the big
boys and look tough and somehow believe
that well hey the best way to do that is
to go drop some bombs somewhere and
start a war uh this this is uh a
terrifying Prospect uh for someone and
and you see this yes with with some
women who feel like they have to go and
look tough but that only happens if
they're not actually strong internally
strong individuals themselves but we
also see with see this with some of the
the male uh leaders in this country we
saw how you know
um how people react again like in the
media and in media how the media and
politics how they react uh when we go to
war we saw how Nancy Pelosi and Brian
Williams and others declared Donald
Trump this is the first time he seems
presidential when he decided to go and
launch some rockets and missiles against
Syria people who hated him people who
could not stand him and were obsessed
with trying to destroy president Trump
all of a sudden he goes and launches
some bombs and they're all over the
television saying well finally he's
acting like a president give me a break
this is the problem with the lack of
leadership that we have and how you you
know you started this question asking
how is it the Democratic party that
should be the party that is at a minimum
skeptical and cynical about the
military-industrial complex and going
out and starting new Wars and regime
change and all of this stuff well they
have become
party to it part and parcel of it and
have become that machine that benefits
from all of this and so they can't it
would be self-defeating for them to now
exercise skepticism or Challenge and
this you know I wanna I wanna jump back
to a question you asked earlier we
didn't get to finish which was what are
some of the positive things that I'm
seeing in the in the Republican party
right now
we see at a minimum
there are dissenting voices within the
Republican party for example on the
issue of this proxy war against Russia
there are not enough to be able to make
a legislative change at this point I
hope that changes but there are a
growing number of Republicans who are
saying no expressing a lot of the
concerns that we are and from a
Republican party perspective there's no
I'm not aware of any punitive measures
being taken against those members so
even though they are not part of the
establishment in the Republican Party
um there is that room for Dissent there
is and I've experienced this myself
there's that room for open conversation
and dialogue whether you agree or
disagree there's a growing movement of
concern about you know these wars and a
movement for peace and response a
responsible foreign policy whereas the
Democratic party has moved in the
opposite direction where you are not
allowed to ask questions you are not
allowed to challenge their narrative or
their position you are not allowed to
hold a dissenting view uh because if you
do then they will seek to destroy you
and cancel you and smear you and and
take away away your voice and it's it's
really sad and unfortunate because
there's nothing more undemocratic than
that
right right well look I would love to
continue talking to you on the YouTube
platform
um but we're I know you have a heart out
in about half an hour and I would have
really liked to have talked to you some
more about trouble we should do this
again we should do this again and we'll
find it we'll find a time that's
appropriate and do it again but
wonderful um I would just uh I just ask
you one final question on this uh um in
this episode then for everyone watching
and listening I'm going to continue
talking to Tulsi gabbard on The Daily
wire plus platform I'm going to do a
little bit more biographical
interrogation let's say and uh that'll
be available for those of you who want
to go over to the Daily wire plus side
of the world let's say and uh but but
I'll maybe we could close with this so
what do you what what are your future
plans at the moment where do you see
yourself going because you're in an odd
political position at the moment to say
the least you have this immense wealth
of experience and and and uh reputation
hard earned and and and you're in a
um idiosyncratic position and you're
quite young as well all things
considered by political standards and so
what what where do you foresee yourself
going and where would you like to go and
and in in the in the in the in the next
few years and maybe even longer than
that
uh
I will the short answer is is I don't
exactly know specifically but what I do
know is that I will continue to do what
I've done uh throughout throughout my
life which is seek out those uh
opportunities and places where I feel I
can make the most positive impact and be
of service uh be of service to God be of
service to to our country and the
American people I always like talking to
you Americans you're so good at that
sort of thing you know that whole Mr
Smith Goes to Washington thing which is
well it's real you know it is real it is
real and I've seen that among uh
Democrats and Republicans alike you know
there is despite everything that divides
people in the United States
um and despite you know all the
possibility of corruption and all of
that there is still this underlying
belief in the goodness of essential
goodness of the system and this real
desire on behalf of people to to be of
genuine service and to put themselves on
the line for it it's no joke to give up
your life to to become a congressman or
congresswoman it's very very tough
decision and we need we need leadership
I think I think the thing that just to
close out uh that that point here is
um there is promise in this system but
the system is extremely dysfunctional
and corrupt right now and so whether
it's what I'm doing now and being able
to speak the truth and try to bring some
common sense and reality and Sanity to
the insanity that we are going through
in this country that is threatening our
constitutional rights that is
threatening our our own democracy I will
continue to seek ways to be uh to help
lead that change to get us back to the
kind of country that our Founders
envisioned for us
well that's a very good closing and so
we will turn now to to the to the Daily
wire plus part of this uh all right
conversation thank you very much for
talking to me today thank you I look
forward I look forward to part two yeah
yeah that would be good and so and so
for all of you watching and listening
thank you very much for your time and
attention it's much appreciated and to
the Daily wire plus people who are
producing this the film crew that's here
in Detroit because that's where I am
today thank you for your help and uh
onward and upward to the next part of
the conversation
very good to meet you
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com